>> Kyle Simpson: What
about standard error?
Because there's regular success output and
then there's error output.
How would we hook into that?
Well you could say,
process.standarderror.right, and
send some stuff to that
particular file descriptor.
There's also another convenience helper,
which for
our purposes right now we'll just use,
which is console.error.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so console.log and
console.error are gonna direct themselves
to two different standard IO streams,
one standard out and one standard error.
Let's just run this program and see if we
can tell any difference between the two.
It doesn't really look
any different does it?
They both look like they're
showing up as console logs.
That's because by default the shell
environment that we're running in is gonna
interpret standard out and standard error
outputs both the same and just print them.
But they are actually different and
we can prove to ourselves that they're
different by doing some file redirection,
file descriptor redirection,
some output redirection.
So I'm gonna try to run this again and
this is,
again, we mentioned at the outset that if
you're running in a Windows environment,
this may be slightly different for you.
I think this part actually works the same
in Windows, but just be aware there
are sometimes nuance differences between a
Linux or a Mac environment versus Windows.
But I wanna do a redirect,
which is the greater than symbol.
And I wanna basically
redirect a file descriptor.
So I wanna redirect the one file
descriptor, which is standard out, and
I wanna redirect it to, and
this is definitely different from Windows.
On a Linux or
Mac system there's a thing called Devnull,
which is basically a bit trashcan.
Anything that goes there just
is completely thrown away.
So, if I say one redirected to Devnull and
we rerun the program,
you'll notice that the hello world
stuff didn't print out anymore,
it's cuz we redirected the standard
out stream to Devnull.
If I were to run that again but
change it to two, you'll notice that
it's gonna print hello world and
not the oops because now it's
redirecting the standard error output.
This is critical to understand these
basic ideas of file descriptors and
standard out versus standard error.
Because if you're going to write
a command line shell tool,
something like a replacement of
a Bash script or a Perl script.
One of the strong conventions is
that you do regular debug output on
the standard out, and you do any sort
of error outputs on standard error.
And the reason is system
monitoring tools will often
hook into the standard error stream and
write those to log files, for example.
They may not write all the debug
information that's coming out, but
they want all the errors.
So it's good for you to make sure,
it's really important for you,
if you're gonna do an error don't just do
console.log because that's your habit.
Do something like console.errors so
that it goes to the error stream, okay?
And by the way, we can actually
redirect both of them at the same time.
We could redirect to the Devnull,
and then we could, and
I always seem to get this one,
this syntax wrong.
We're gonna redirect to to the address
that we're redirecting, I'm sorry,
we're gonna redirect one to the address
that we're already redirecting to, and
now both of them are gone.
So now both of them
are getting sent to Devnull.
Now you don't typically do that
yourself on a command line, but
this is the sort of thing that
your system automation tools will
often be doing when they run
your programs, they'll be
redirecting outputs to different log
files and things like that, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
let's go back to our code.
Now we are outputting to standard out and
outputting to standard error, that's good.
But I said there's three
standard IO streams.
The other of the standard IO streams
is standard in, that's an input stream.
And we could, in theory,
access that stream directly.
We could say something
like process.stdin.read.
Cuz it's an input stream so we need to
read from it rather than write to it.
We can do that, we can call read and
read a character,
read a bite off of
the standard end stream.
But we're not gonna do that for now,
we are gonna do standard
input a little bit later.
But we're not gonna use the raw stream,
and it's because standard in streams
are much more finicky, they're much
more quirky than the output streams.
They are significantly affected by
variances in your interactive shell.
And there's a bunch of little quirks and
weirdnesses about how it knows an end of
input signal, how that gets sent in,
and all of that other stuff.
And that's not code that
we want to reinvent.
So when we get to the point
where we wanna use standard in,
we're gonna use a package that already
does that and it's called get standard in.
It already handles all their
weirdnesses in a platform agnostic way.
We don't wanna reauthor that logic.
So just be aware that there is a process,
.stdin, but we're not gonna use it for
right now.